F24 Ihler

An impressive and comprehensive introduction to the field of machine learning. The content of this course is extremely dense (and in lecture, Ihler does cover all of these dense topics that would be better suited for a graduate course), but Ihler will distill all that content down to its bare basics when it comes time to do homeworks and exams. Despite this, the exams are still quite difficult, so be warned.

The course typically introduces the concepts of machine learning to you right out of the gate, then you spend the next several weeks diving deeper into several models that can be trained on the data sets, as well as tricks to make them perform better. Ihler actually covers way more models than other instructors for CS 178 typically would, covering everything from Naive Bayes to SVMs to Neural Networks to Decision Trees. However, as a result, he does have to rush through the slides, and his lectures can quickly become incomprehensible at the pace he’s going. For that reason, you should really go through the slides on your own time to digest the content.

This is an intimidating course, but it will truly broaden your perspectives by the end of it — you will learn a lot. Conceptually, this will be a significant step up in difficulty from most classes you will have taken before this point, but if you take the time to understand the content, you will come out feeling a lot more confident. Make sure you have a strong background in calculus, linear algebra, and statistics. Those are absolutely vital to success in this course, since Ihler will hit the ground running without reviewing any of the prerequisite math — he expects you to be familiar with these math concepts.
