F24 Klefstad

It’s another Klefstad course! You know what that means! Two quizzes — oh wait, there are three now? Yep, three quizzes a week. The readings for this class are even longer than those in ICS 45C, and the homeworks are even longer than those in ICS 45C. Same Klefstad principles but on steroids. Klefstad adds almost nothing in the lecture that you didn’t learn while doing the readings, and the final (he refers to it as a final midterm) was a huge mess. The class can be stressful for no reason (like most other Klefstad classes). 

Content-wise, it’s pretty fun and interesting — you go over several principles of programming languages and the questions that shape their designs. Some languages feel better suited for certain jobs than others, some languages try to do their own thing to stand out from the vast sea of choices, and others are just straight garbage (Objective C). It’s fun and interesting, even if it is a lot of breadth and not much depth.

The highlight of this class is the extra credit assignment — Klefstad highly encourages you to do it, and for good reason. You learn an up-and-coming programming language (by industry standards) and code up a past homework in that language. It’s great for expanding your horizons (and the exploration I did for this extra credit assignment really opened my eyes to the possibilities languages like Rust, Go, and Kotlin had).

I found this course relatively okay… until the final midterm. Klefstad screwed up big time while transitioning from a Respondus final to a paper final, and his comments during the final were like the last straw for me. Thankfully, he pulled through with a curve, but I genuinely cannot forgive him for what he said almost 10 minutes before our final midterm was over: that he discovered a mistake on one of the questions roughly at the 30-minute mark and did not tell us about it until now, only when he started to feel guilty for not informing us about it. Just know what you’re getting yourself into if you take this.
