W23 Zhang

A very disappointing follow-up to ICS 6B with Gassko. Zhang is the exact opposite of Gassko — she does an active lecturing style (albeit still quite hands-off) and does not require you to read ZyBook passages. Her fatal flaw is that her lectures are quite literally just summaries of the ZyBook passages. She doesn’t exactly add much to them — the entire course essentially functions like “Professor ZyBooks” with Zhang as the dedicated messenger. Discussion sections are useful since they actually expand beyond the bare basics and fill in the content gaps, but one can’t help but wonder if this course feels a little too bare-bones for you to feel confident in the content.

Exams are straightforward — questions tend to be replicas of the ZyBook questions with different values, so there’s no real surprise there. For this reason, grades tend to be astronomically higher than what is considered typical in this course, but you have to wonder how many of those students know what they’re missing out on. A course doesn’t need to be challenging for students to learn effectively from it, but these questions felt way too cookie-cutter to be effective for student learning.

While taking the course, you might think this is pretty fine — no glaring issues, Zhang teaches the content, you do well on the exams. Content-wise, it’s not bad — quite a bit more mathematical, but still very doable. This is why her ratings tend to be really high. It’s only in retrospect that you see how little Zhang prepared you when you start taking courses that require a strong understanding of the content.
